Welcome back.
DevTools is shipping with five
new features in Chrome 63,
including multi-client
debugging, Workspaces 2.0,
custom push notifications,
and background sync
events, and four new audits.
Up until now, DevTools
hasn't played nicely
with other developer tools.
If you've ever tried
debugging a Chrome driver
test with their tools
or using the debugging
extension in VS
Code or WebStorm,
you know what I'm talking about.
Once you open up DevTools,
your session in that other tool
gets demolished.
As of Chrome 63, this is fixed.
We call it
multi-client debugging,
and it opens up a whole bunch of
new interactions between tools.
Generally speaking,
clients can now
run at the same
time as DevTools,
and multiple clients can now
connect at the same time.
For a while now, we've had
a feature called Workspaces,
which essentially lets you use
DevTools as your code editor.
Within DevTools, you make
some changes to your code,
and the changes get saved
to your file system.
Version 2.0 brings some UX
improvements to this workflow.
Here on my desktop,
I've got the repository
where I frantically hacked
together the last-minute demos
for these videos.
Let's serve the repo
locally and work on the demo
that I'm going to show you next.
To map the local
code to the network,
go to the Sources panel.
Then click the File System tab.
Then drag and drop
the Directory.
Chrome asks you to
confirm that you
want to give DevTools
read-and-write access
to the Directory.
After I reload
the page, there is
a green dot next to some of
the files in the Network tab.
This means they are
mapped to local resources.
DevTools does these
mappings automatically.
Style changes in the Elements
panel persist to disk--
for example, when I change
the color of this H1.
The green dot here,
next to the link,
means that this change has
persisted in the source.
Click on the link.
And back in the
Sources tab, we can
see the change has been
written to the file.
Just to confirm, let's
run git diff on the repo.
And yes, we can see
the change has been
recorded in the git repo too.
Now, a big current
gotcha to be aware of
is that changes you make in
the DOM tree don't persist.
For example, change
this H1's text.
Go back to the Sources panel,
and view the file there.
And the change isn't there.
Reload the page,
and the text reverts
to what was there before.
So if you want a
persist DOM changes,
just edit the file
from the Sources panel.
Reload the page, and you can
see that the DOM change persists
across page reloads.
In the Service Workers tab, you
can now send push notifications
with custom content and
background sync events
with custom tags.
Go to the Application panel.
Then click the
Service Workers tab.
To send a custom
push notification,
put some content
in the Push box.
Then click the Push button.
To send a background sync
event with custom tag,
enter the custom
tag in the Sync box.
Then click the Sync button.
For this demo, I've just
set up the Service Worker
to log the tag text
to the console.
In real apps, this feature is
useful when your app is offline
and you want the Service
Worker to do some work once
an internet connection
is re-established--
using the tag as
the command keyword
for which logic to execute.
The Audits panel
has four new audits,
including serving
images as WebP,
using images with
appropriate aspect ratios,
avoiding front end JavaScript
libraries with known security
vulnerabilities, and logging
browser errors to the console.
That's all for Chrome 63.
Here's a tip about a lesser
known DevTools feature.
Say you're debugging a page or
deconstructing somebody else's
page, and you want to
study the logic that gets
triggered when an event fires.
You could dig around
the code and search
blindly for the
event handler logic.
Or you can use an event
listener breakpoint.
Here I've got Serma's
Tenure for Bananas app open.
And I really need to
figure out what logic runs
when I click the Like button.
To set an event
listener breakpoint,
go to the Sources panel.
Then expand the Event
Listener Breakpoint section.
Check the Mouse checkbox to
break on any mouse event.
Or expand the section, and check
the Click checkbox to break
on click events specifically.
When I triggered
the Click listener
by clicking the Like button,
DevTools automatically
pauses on the first line
of code in the listener.
Sometimes an event causes
multiple listeners to run.
For example, if you've got
some analytics tracking set up,
you might pause in
the click listener
from the analytics code--
in which case you can just
click Resume Script Execution,
and the page runs until the
first line of the next event
listener.
That's it.
Thanks for watching.
See you in six
weeks for Chrome 64.